and with Israel's war against Hamas now
in its 12th week the political pressure
on Benjamin netanyahu's government is
becoming more apparent recent polls show
the support for his lot party is
plummeting from winning 32 seats in
Parliament just over a year ago lud
would only hold on to 18 if elections
were held today Centrist General Benny
gun has meanwhile seen his own
popularity rise the former Army Chief of
Staff joined netanyahu's War cabinet
shortly after hamas's October 7th attack
on Israel from winning just 12 seats in
Parliament last November po show his
National Unity party would take 37 seats
in new
elections netanyahu's loss of support
now comes amid mounting International
criticism over his handling of the
war this image of Israeli Prime Minister
with his War cabinet members ministers
yav Galant and Benny Gans is misleading
it's meant to show Unity while behind
the scenes there are growing tensions
and deep political divid between
[Music]
them opinions and polls show a clear
trend of eroding support for the men who
has managed in almost a mythical way to
hold on to power through many ups and
downs longer than any other prime
minister in
Israel but now as the fighting in Gaza
continues with over 120 hostages still
in the hands of Hamas classified by
multiple countries as a terrorist
organization public anger grief and
frustration are catching up with Yu the
man who promised to be Israel's
protector and as critics say
failed meanwhile the cist politician
Benny gun a former Chief of the IDF and
a member of the war cabinet is winning
Hearts he has tripled his standing in
the polls and to counter the popular
General in his own cabinet Netanyahu is
toughening his
tance the Palestinian Authority in its
current format cannot get control cannot
get control of Gaza after we fought and
we did all this to give it to
them but Nan's break further to the
right and his refusal to discuss a path
to a two-state solution and a long-term
arrangement for Gaza Strip is not just
an internal discussion it puts the
Israeli government at odds with the
Biden Administration to the dismay of
benig Gans many observers Wonder now how
much longer can this makeshift political
partnership still
last
that report by our Middle East analyst
chani rosanes she joins me now in the
studio hi CH does this loss of
popularity that you've outlined here
mean Israelis don't support Nano's
approach to the war well it's it's a
very big question I think the very idea
that this question is looming above
netan is his decision-making process
clean of politics that's for itself is a
big Shadow to carry but you know when we
talk about the war there are many
different aspects there what's happening
in the media term uh should Israel move
to this third phase of fighting uh
there's the long-term Pro uh solutions
for Gaza there's the what's happening in
the West Bank there's Lebanon there's
Iran you know overlo the Iranian threat
over looming over Israeli um in general
so all of these questions you know put
Nan in a place where if he does not have
complete trust by the public that what
he's doing you know the decision he's
making are clean professional and only
driven by the need to fight then that
for itself puts him in a bit of a of a
of a bind so we asked people in is for
their opinions on Netanyahu let's take a
listen he thinks he's you know
undefeatable that's impossible I mean we
live with it and this is the biggest
burden here to live with the knowledge
that this crook is still leading this
country it's just impossible I think uh
he knows what he's doing also because he
was in the Army and special units and
uh I think I feel secure I wish he would
go
this is exactly what I
think that's some really harsh criticism
there what needs to change well you got
to remember Israelis are are stricken by
grief by Shock by by horror frustration
you know the world still you know moves
on in a way but Israel is are still very
much stuck on the 7th of October feeling
betrayed by the government that's a very
strong sentiment what needs to change
well as long as Ben gun which we've
mentioned before uh he is a war Cabinet
member he is also the former uh head of
the military as long as he's there he's
considered by many Israeli as the
responsible adult in the room they trust
netan that as long as decision making
are done with Benny Gans and to next to
him then it's done properly once we see
Benny Gans deciding to step back or out
of the government that's where Netanyahu
is going to probably lose massive uh
control over his political future uh we
don't see it happening anytime soon the
assumption is this scenario will only
start after moving to the third phase
meaning Israeli soldiers withdrawing
from the heart of Gaza and trying and
setting them themselves up on the on the
margins sort of as a buffer between
Palestinians and the Israeli Mainland uh
that will probably be happening later
into the into uh about a month from now
late January only then we might be
seeing a shift inside the war cabinet
and therefore afterwards made the first
Domino uh break to fall and bring bring
about a change in the political
landscape in Israel
you spoke about upcoming phases another
one that people want to focus on is what
happens after this war we heard
Netanyahu in your reports say the
Palestinian Authority can have no
control what else can happen he he he
recognized that the Palestinian
Authority is a very good point for him
to to play for his base there's very
little trust there's very little will to
see the Palestinian Authority going into
Gaza or going stronger in the West Bank
so he recognizes the sentiment and he
plays on it to play for his base but
it's we seeing the international communi
between the American uh the American
strongly pushing against that there is
nobody else that seems to be willing to
step into the vacuum that will be
created in Gaza once Hamas is gone so
and this is also partially why netan is
is not so happy to discuss the next day
for Gaza the the end goal because that's
where he needs to start talking about uh
things that are more complicated than
they just say let's be tough and let's
fight which is something most Israelis
still stand behind and can get you know
United behind there's also the hostages
issue that's a very you know contested
issue n feels that pushing strong that's
the only way to get them out if you look
at the left leaning crowd in Israel they
feel they that they need to take them
out even if it means stopping the fight
is worth it um and we still you know we
need to remember Israel was very divided
before this war started and we're
probably going to start seeing these
cracks uh showing up very soon again
quite a lot to unpack there thank you so
much for doing that so well for Shani
ranas you're
welcome